Docs: Added "Cluster label verification" section (#3096)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/configure/configuring-hash-rings.md

- `-memberlist.advertise-addr`: IP address to advertise to other Mimir replicas. The other replicas will connect to this IP to talk to the instance.
- `-memberlist.advertise-port`: Port to advertise to other Mimir replicas. The other replicas will connect to this port to talk to the instance.

#### Cluster label verification

> By default, Grafana Mimir memberlist will try to connect to every visible replica in a network.
> 
> However, when running multiple clusters in a same network this may cause that different replicas from different clusters end up connecting to each other, leading to unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: I would clarify a bit this, cause can be misleading as stated. For example:

```suggestion
By default, Grafana Mimir memberlist will join a cluster with any instance discovered when resolving the hosts configured via the `-memberlist.join` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
If, for any reason, the discovered addresses include instances of other Grafana Mimir clusters, or instances of other distributed systems using memberlist, Grafana Mimir will join these unrelated clusters together.
```

To avoid this type of undesired situation, you can enable cluster label verification with the following settings:

- `-memberlist.cluster-label`: Label value to identify replicas belonging to the same cluster.

> - `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled`: Flag to disable the cluster label verification.

Reviewer: I think it's not clear the existence of this configuration option. I think would be more clear if you add another section explain how to migrate from a cluster without label verification to a cluster with a label verification (you can look at the migration steps we used at Grafana Labs). This flag should be described there.

- `-memberlist.advertise-port`: Port to advertise to other Mimir replicas. The other replicas will connect to this port to talk to the instance.

#### Cluster label verification

By default, Grafana Mimir memberlist will join a cluster with any instance discovered when resolving the hosts configured via the `-memberlist.join` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
If, for any reason, the discovered addresses include instances of other Grafana Mimir clusters, or instances of other distributed systems using memberlist, Grafana Mimir will join these unrelated clusters together.

To avoid this type of undesired situation Grafana Mimir offers an additional type of validation known as cluster label verification.

When enabled, all memberlist internal traffic will be prefixed with the configured cluster label, discarding any other traffic that doesn't match that prefix and ensuring that only replicas having the same configured label can connect to each other.

#### Migrate to using cluster label verification

To migrate a Grafana Mimir cluster to use cluster label verification, the following steps need to be performed:

> - Disable cluster label verification on all cluster instances via `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).

Reviewer: A couple of notes:
1. Make it a numbered list
2. Clarify that they need to rollout these changes 1-by-1, not all of them together. For example you could intersticial steps like this:

```
1. Disable cluster label verification on all cluster instances ......
1. Wait until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Mimir instances.
1. Define a label on all cluster instances which is unique to the cluster ......
1. Wait until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Mimir instances.
```

- Define a label on all cluster instances which is unique to the cluster via `-memberlist.cluster-label` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
  This label must be the same on all instances that are part of the same cluster.

>   For instance, some value like `<k8s cluster>.<k8s namespace>` would make sense.

Reviewer: It's not safe to give this suggestion. For example, I think with the Helm chart you could have 2 Mimir clusters in the same namespace. What you could say is "For instance, if you run a Mimir cluster in a dedicated namespace, then setting the cluster label to the name of the namespace should be a safe choice."

- `-memberlist.advertise-addr`: IP address to advertise to other Mimir replicas. The other replicas will connect to this IP to talk to the instance.
- `-memberlist.advertise-port`: Port to advertise to other Mimir replicas. The other replicas will connect to this port to talk to the instance.

#### Cluster label verification

> By default, Grafana Mimir memberlist will join a cluster with any instance discovered when resolving the hosts configured via the `-memberlist.join` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
> If, for any reason, the discovered addresses include instances of other Grafana Mimir clusters, or instances of other distributed systems using memberlist, Grafana Mimir will join these unrelated clusters together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, a Grafana Mimir memberlist joins a cluster with any instance that is discovered when hosts are resolved, based on the `-memberlist.join` CLI flag setting or the memberlist’s YAML configuration option.
If, for any reason, the discovered addresses include instances of other Grafana Mimir clusters, or instances of other distributed systems that use a memberlist, Grafana Mimir joins these unrelated clusters together.
```
@pracucci, please vet my changes for technical accuracy. It could very well be that I have tweaked this too far.

> To avoid this type of undesired situation Grafana Mimir offers an additional type of validation known as cluster label verification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid this, Grafana Mimir provides an additional type of validation known as cluster label verification.
```

> When enabled, all memberlist internal traffic will be prefixed with the configured cluster label, discarding any other traffic that doesn't match that prefix and ensuring that only replicas having the same configured label can connect to each other.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When cluster label verification is enabled, all memberlist internal traffic is prefixed with the configured cluster label.
Any traffic that does not match that prefix is discarded, to ensure that only the replicas that have the same configured label can connect to each other.
```

#### Migrate to using cluster label verification

> To migrate a Grafana Mimir cluster to use cluster label verification, the following steps need to be performed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Migrate a Grafana Mimir cluster to use cluster label verification:**
```

> 1. Disable cluster label verification on all cluster instances via `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Disable cluster label verification on all cluster instances via `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled=true` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
```

> 1. Disable cluster label verification on all cluster instances via `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled=true` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Disable cluster label verification on all cluster instances via the `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled=true` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
```

> 2. _Wait until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Wait** until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances.
```

3. Define a label on all cluster instances which is unique to the cluster via `-memberlist.cluster-label` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
   This label must be the same on all instances that are part of the same cluster.
   For instance, if you run a Grafana Mimir cluster in a dedicated namespace, then setting the cluster label to the name of the namespace should be a safe choice.
4. _Wait until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances_.

> 5. Enable cluster label verification on all clusters instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Remove the configuration option `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled=true` to enable cluster label verification on all clusters instances.
```

If, for any reason, the discovered addresses include instances of other Grafana Mimir clusters, or instances of other distributed systems using memberlist, Grafana Mimir will join these unrelated clusters together.

To avoid this, Grafana Mimir provides an additional type of validation known as cluster label verification.

When cluster label verification is enabled, all memberlist internal traffic is prefixed with the configured cluster label.
Any traffic that does not match that prefix is discarded, to ensure that only the replicas that have the same configured label can connect to each other.

#### Migrate to using cluster label verification

To migrate a Grafana Mimir cluster to use cluster label verification, the following steps need to be performed:

1. Disable cluster label verification on all cluster instances via `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled=true` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
2. **Wait** until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances.

> 3. Define a label on all cluster instances which is unique to the cluster via `-memberlist.cluster-label` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. On each cluster instance, define a label that is unique to that cluster via the `-memberlist.cluster-label` CLI flag (or its respective YAML configuration option).
```

   This label must be the same on all instances that are part of the same cluster.
   For instance, if you run a Grafana Mimir cluster in a dedicated namespace, then setting the cluster label to the name of the namespace should be a safe choice.

> 4. _Wait until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. **Wait** until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances.
```

5. Remove the configuration option `-memberlist.cluster-label-verification-disabled=true` to enable cluster label verification on all clusters instances.

> 6. _Wait until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. **Wait** until the configuration change has been rolled out to all Grafana Mimir instances.
```
